claz guide first draft (#991)
urbit/docs: tutorials/arvo/claz.md

+++

> title = "claz"

Author: What about "Advanced Azimuth Tools"

> title = "claz"

Reviewer: `/app/eth-sender` is pretty generic, but sure, I'd accept that.

Once you have made these changes be sure to run `|commit %home` to get them into your ship.

Next run `|start %claz` after which you'll be able to generate transactions.

```
:claz [%generate %/spawn/eth-txs %mainnet author %single %spawn ~ship to]
```

Here we have an example of generating a transaction to spawn a ship. Something to note is that for this to be successful you'll need to actually have the right to spawn the ship in question. Let's break down the command.

`%generate` is how all commands to `claz` are going to start.

`%/spawn/eth-txs` is simply the path for the output file

`%mainnet` specifies which network this is going to sent out on. Other options are possible including the test-net `%ropsten`.

> `author` here is an Ethereum address that is issuing the transaction. It will need to be written in `@ux` notation, e.g. `0x3b17.d097.d9dd.711e.4ef8.517a.bbf1.8b2b.a643.81fe`.

Reviewer: I'd either move or reiterate the note about "need to be able to spawn the ship" here. In general: the author will need the correct rights and ownership and such to do the specified transaction, or it'll eat your gas when you try to run it.

Also: the only reason to specify the author here, is so claz can find the right nonce for the signing/sending address. (You mention it below, but seems more appropriate here.)

> `%single` specifies what kind of batch that will be created. If you are going to do multiple transactions you will need to either set this to `%more` and create a list of batches or upload them before generating the next one. The reason this ship needs to have internet access is because it needs to look up the nonce for the specified address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`%single` specifies what kind of batch that will be created. If you are going to do multiple transactions you will need to either set this to `%more` followed by a _list_ of batches, or generate the next transaction after having submitted the previous one to the blockchain.
```

`%spawn` is the command we want to issue. After this what the arguments are will vary based on the command.

`~ship` will be the ship to be spawned.

`to` is the Ethereum address to spawn the ship to.

> You will want to read `sur/claz.hoon` which you can find [here](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/master/pkg/arvo/sur/claz.hoon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will want to read [`/sur/claz.hoon`](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/master/pkg/arvo/sur/claz.hoon).
```

Looking at that file with uninitiated eyes, `%single` and `%more` are about the only things I can easily understand. And in truth, even the `+call` holds some secrets that might bite you (`%transfer-ship` never resets keys/proxies, for example). More elaboration may or may not be warranted here, but I guess most of these are "you probably won't ever need this".

Author: Eh. I kind of think the fact that it's not ultra easy to read is a bonus for this guide because people shouldn't be doing this unless they are _very_ confident.

This will contain more details about the various kinds of transactions you can perform particularly `++call`

> After running this command you should find a csv file at the specified path. You can examine this file to learn how they are constructed. You are able to modify the nonces, gas limit and price without changing the function of the transaction but it's not important for this guide. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running this command you should find a csv file at the output path you specified. You can examine this file to learn how they are constructed. You are able to modify the nonces, gas limit and price without changing the functionality of the transaction but it's not important for this guide. 
```

For this guide, we'll continue on the same ship.

Run `|start %eth-sender` and then you can use it to sign the transaction file.

```
:eth-sender [%sign %/spawn-signed/txt %/spawn/eth-txs %/mykey/txt ~[40 80]]
```

Let's break this down again.

`%sign` is the action we are going to perform here. `eth-sender` can also be used to submit batches of transactions to the network in various ways, but details on that are outside of the scope of this guide.

`%/spawn-signed/txt` is the path to the output file.

`%/spawn/eth-txs` is the path to the transaction file we generated earlier. It will need to be accessible so don't forget to `|commit %home` if you moved it to a different pier.

`%/mykey/txt` is the path to your private key file. It should contain your private key beginning with 0x and followed by a hex string with no dots, and where capital letters are fine. This file is most likely the reason you will want to use an airgapped machine so that your private key never touches a networked computer. Opsec is left to the reader.

> `~[40 80]` is a list of possible gwei costs; a signed transaction file will be created for each one listed. Here we just specify 40 and 80 gwei. You may need to use the higher value based on current Ethereum network traffic and average gas costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`~[40 80]` is a list of gas prices, in gwei; a signed transaction file will be created for each one listed. Here we just specify 40 and 80 gwei. You may want to adjust this list based on current Ethereum network traffic and your time preference for the transactions.
```

+++
title = "claz"
weight = 4
template = "doc.html"
+++

> This document outlines some advanced techniques for interacting with Azimuth contracts from Urbit itself. It's strongly discouraged to do this unless you're very confident as Azimuth transactions will cost Etherium to complete. However, until you upload a signed transaction to the block chain no transaction will take place so it's safe to explore these tools. It will also be very helpful to have at least a rudimentary understanding of Hoon in order to read and modify parts of the code.

Reviewer: The primary risk here isn't transaction cost so much as, you know, doing a bad transfer or whatever.

> modify parts of the code

This is exactly why this isn't suited for public use. (^:

First you will want to boot a fakezod. You can do this with your live running ship but at this time this will need you to modify the code so it's best to do this on a ship you can make mistakes on. If you don't know how to boot a fakezod see this guide for instructions.

Be sure to have mounted your home desk so you can easily edit files on it.
The first edit that will probably need to be made is in [`app/claz.hoon`](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/master/pkg/arvo/app/claz.hoon#L14). The listed url will need to be changed to 

> https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/2599df54929b47099bda360958d75aaf

Reviewer: Most of our endpoints aren't super secret, but it feels wrong to just up and share them like this. Besides, if you can't obtain an endpoint of your own (Infura is free for small-scale use!) then this guide is not for you.

or another valid endpoint.

> The second change that will potentially be needed is to modify the [gas limit](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/master/pkg/arvo/app/claz.hoon#L179). This number here is the maximum number of gas units that will be used. In future this will be configurable but for now you may need to change this manually. For a guide to what to set it to you can use the [constants in bridge](https://github.com/urbit/bridge/blob/master/src/lib/constants.js#L23) as a guide based on what action you are going to be preforming. You will need at least the maximum gas units multiplied by the gwei you're going to set later in your etherium account as it may cost that much though is likely to be far less.

Reviewer: You don't _need_ to change it, but it has implications for transaction submission and max fee.

Reviewer: > You will need at least the maximum gas units multiplied by the gwei you're going to set later

I realize this is immediately followed by "in your Ethereum account", but the way the given calculation directly follows example numbers confused me into thinking you were saying you need to edit the limit to max * gwei or w/e.

Probably better to phrase as "The maximum cost of your transaction will be ... . You'll need at least that in your account." or similar.

Once you have made these changes be sure to run `|commit %home` to get them into your ship.

Next run `|start %claz` after which you'll be able to generate transactions.

```
:claz [%generate %/transaction/eth-txs %mainnet author %single %spawn ~ship to]
```

Here we have an example of generating a transaction to spawn a ship. Something to note is that for this to be successful you'll need to actually have the right to spawn the ship in question. Let's break down the command.

`%generate` is how all commands to `claz` are going to start.

> `%/transaction/eth-txs` is simply the path for the output file

Reviewer: Recommend naming it after the contents, ie `%/spawn-star/eth-txs`.

> `%mainnet` specifies which network this is going to sent out on.

Reviewer: Specify the other available options here. `%ropsten` is noteworthy.

> `author` here is an etherium address that is issuing the transaction. Remember that it will need to be written all in lower case, dotted notation, e.g.  0x3b17.d097.d9dd.711e.4ef8.517a.bbf1.8b2b.a643.81fe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`author` here is an etherium address that is issuing the transaction. It will need to be written in `@ux` notation, e.g. `0x3b17.d097.d9dd.711e.4ef8.517a.bbf1.8b2b.a643.81fe`.
```

> `%single` specifies what kind of batch that will be created. If you are going to do multiple transactions you will need to either set this to `%more` and create a list of batches or upload them before generating the next one. The reason this ship needs to have internet access is because it needs to look up the nonce for the specified address.

Reviewer: I don't think you mentioned the word "batch" prior to this. Might want elaborate a little bit.

`%single` is explicitly just one transaction, `%more` is more appropriately described as a batch of multiple transactions.

The thing about looking up the nonce is a bit of a non-sequitur. Probably integrate that into the above paragraph about the transaction author. Also worth mentioning there the "generate all transactions in one command" requirement for getting the correct nonces, that you ran into.

> `%spawn` is the command we want to issue. After this what the arguments are will vary based on the command.

Reviewer: s/command/transaction ?

Reviewer: The arguments below should just be rolled up into this, explaining that `[%spawn ~ship to]` describes a transaction, and that this will look different for other kinds of transactions.

Reviewer: > this conversation was marked as resolved

But nothing changed? My comments still stand, at least.

Author: fixed.

`~ship` will be the ship to be spawned.

`to` is the etherium address to spawn the ship to.

You will want to read `sur/claz.hoon` which you can find [here](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/master/pkg/arvo/sur/claz.hoon).
This will contain more details about the various kinds of transactions you can perform particularly `++call`

> After running this command you should find a csv file at the specified path. You can examine this file to learn how they are constructed but it's not important for this guide.

Reviewer: It's actually good to know that you can tweak the nonces, gas limit and price in this file without really changing anything about the _function_ of the transaction.

This file can now be signed and uploaded. At this point, you can transfer this file to an airgapped machine which has your keys if you want. If you choose to do that you will need to download the urbit binary as well as the most recent pill file or a copy of the fakezod pier you have already booted.

For this guide, we'll continue on the same ship.

Run `|start %eth-sender` and then you can use it to sign the transaction file.

```
:eth-sender [%sign %/transaction-signed/txt %/transaction/eth-txs %/mykey/txt ~[80]]
```

Let's again break this down.

> `%sign` is the action we are going to perform here.

Reviewer: "eth-sender can also be used to submit batches of transactions to the network in various ways, but details on that are outside of scope here." or similar

`%/transaction-signed/txt` is the path to the output file.

`%/transaction/eth-txs` is the path to the transaction file we generated earlier. It will need to be accessible so don't forget to `|comit %home` if you moved it to a different pier.

> `%/mykey/txt` is the path to your private key file. This file is most likely the reason you will want to use an airgapped machine so that your private key never touches a networked computer. Opsec is left to the reader.

Reviewer: You should explain the format though! Leading 0x, followed by hex characters, no dots, capitals are fine.

`~[80]` is a list of possible gwei costs a signed transaction file will be created for each one. Here we just specify 80 gwei. You may need to adjust this based on current etherium network traffic and average gas costs.

> Now you should have a directory in your pier that contains one file for each of the specified gwei costs.

Reviewer: I think it just spits them out with modified names, instead of in a directory?

Also probably just do `~[40 80]` as your example, saying "we might want the higher one if the network gets busy" or w/e, so you have a more concrete reason for talking about the multiples case here.

Author: It is in a directory as of... me using it last week.

Reviewer: https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/85435e9a81e105809d5d381b5d34fae1d4daa3b8/pkg/arvo/app/eth-sender.hoon#L218-L224

Looks like flat files to me.

Author: fixed

> To actually transmit the transaction, paste the contents of one of these files into https://etherscan.io/pushTx or whatever other transmission system you would like to use. **This is the action that will actually cost you etherium. Only do this step if you want to actually perform the action.**

Reviewer: Same comment about what risk the emphasize as above. Transaction costs are trivial compared to, well, even planet value I guess.

template = "doc.html"
+++

> This document outlines some advanced techniques for interacting with Azimuth contracts from Urbit itself. It's strongly discouraged to do this unless you're very confident as Azimuth transactions are permanent and will cost ETH to complete. However, until you upload a signed transaction to the block chain no transaction will take place so it's safe to explore these tools. It will also be very helpful to have at least a rudimentary understanding of Hoon in order to read and modify parts of the code.

Reviewer 2: block chain -> blockchain

> First you will want to boot a fakezod. You can do this with your live running ship but at this time this will need you to modify the code so it's best to do this on a ship you can make mistakes on. If you don't know how to boot a fakezod see this guide for instructions.

Reviewer 2: >  see this guide for instructions.

link?

Be sure to have mounted your home desk so you can easily edit files on it.
The first edit that will probably need to be made is in [`app/claz.hoon`](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/master/pkg/arvo/app/claz.hoon#L14). The listed url will need to be changed to a valid Etherium endpoint. infura.io provides an Etherium API that you can use.

> The second change that may potentially be needed is to modify the [gas limit](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/master/pkg/arvo/app/claz.hoon#L179). This number here is the maximum number of gas units that will be used. In future this will be configurable but for now you may need to change this manually. For a guide to what to set it to you can use the [constants in bridge](https://github.com/urbit/bridge/blob/master/src/lib/constants.js#L23) as a guide based on what action you are going to be preforming. The maximum cost of your transaction will be the maximum gas units multiplied by the gwei you're going to set later. You'll need at least this much in your account.

Reviewer 2: preforming -> performing

Once you have made these changes be sure to run `|commit %home` to get them into your ship.

Next run `|start %claz` after which you'll be able to generate transactions.

```
:claz [%generate %/spawn/eth-txs %mainnet author %single %spawn ~ship to]
```

Here we have an example of generating a transaction to spawn a ship. Something to note is that for this to be successful you'll need to actually have the right to spawn the ship in question. Let's break down the command.

`%generate` is how all commands to `claz` are going to start.

`%/spawn/eth-txs` is simply the path for the output file

> `%mainnet` specifies which network this is going to sent out on. Other options are possible including the test net `%ropsten`.

Reviewer 2: test net -> test-net

> `author` here is an etherium address that is issuing the transaction. It will need to be written in `@ux` notation, e.g. `0x3b17.d097.d9dd.711e.4ef8.517a.bbf1.8b2b.a643.81fe`.

Reviewer 2: etherium -> Ethereum

`%single` specifies what kind of batch that will be created. If you are going to do multiple transactions you will need to either set this to `%more` and create a list of batches or upload them before generating the next one. The reason this ship needs to have internet access is because it needs to look up the nonce for the specified address.

`%spawn` is the command we want to issue. After this what the arguments are will vary based on the command.

`~ship` will be the ship to be spawned.

`to` is the Etherium address to spawn the ship to.

You will want to read `sur/claz.hoon` which you can find [here](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/blob/master/pkg/arvo/sur/claz.hoon).
This will contain more details about the various kinds of transactions you can perform particularly `++call`

After running this command you should find a csv file at the specified path. You can examine this file to learn how they are constructed. You are able to modify the nonces, gas limit and price without changing the function of the transaction but it's not important for this guide. 

> This file can now be signed and uploaded. At this point, you can transfer this file to an airgapped machine which has your keys if you want. If you choose to do that you will need to download the urbit binary as well as the most recent pill file or a copy of the fakezod pier you have already booted.

Reviewer 2: "keys if you want" -> "keys, if you want"

> This file can now be signed and uploaded. At this point, you can transfer this file to an airgapped machine which has your keys if you want. If you choose to do that you will need to download the urbit binary as well as the most recent pill file or a copy of the fakezod pier you have already booted.

Reviewer 2: urbit -> Urbit

Run `|start %eth-sender` and then you can use it to sign the transaction file.

```
:eth-sender [%sign %/spawn-signed/txt %/spawn/eth-txs %/mykey/txt ~[40 80]]
```

> Let's again break this down.

Reviewer 2: Let's break this down again.

`%sign` is the action we are going to perform here. `eth-sender` can also be used to submit batches of transactions to the network in various ways, but details on that are outside of the scope of this guide.

`%/spawn-signed/txt` is the path to the output file.

> `%/spawn/eth-txs` is the path to the transaction file we generated earlier. It will need to be accessible so don't forget to `|comit %home` if you moved it to a different pier.

Reviewer 2: |comit -> |commit

> `%/mykey/txt` is the path to your private key file. It should contain your private key beginning with 0x and followed by a hex string with no dots where capital letters are fine. This file is most likely the reason you will want to use an airgapped machine so that your private key never touches a networked computer. Opsec is left to the reader.

Reviewer 2: "no dots where" -> "no dots, and where", or maybe just remove the part about capital letters?

> `~[40 80]` is a list of possible gwei costs a signed transaction file will be created for each one. Here we just specify 40 and 80 gwei. You may need to use the higher value based on current Etherium network traffic and average gas costs.

Reviewer 2: "costs a signed transaction file will be created for each one" -> "costs; a signed transaction file will be created for each entry" I think? Not entirely sure what is trying to be said here.

Etherium -> Ethereum
